Youth Worldwide
‘Youth’ is a term that encompasses a pioneering spirit, a curious mind and ideas that are full of potential. Youth Worldwide is the network for emerging creative innovators everywhere; a platform for talent in its prime.Youth Worldwide is dedicated to showcasing creativity and problem solving. We want to showcase our members; their contributions, their progress and greatest work, ensuring they are seen and heard by as many people as possible. We are leveraging a growing following to share and develop ideas that we believe will inspire.By creating opportunities for people to work together, developing online platforms and offline events to showcase their efforts and using our network to support and inspire their own ideas, YWW plans to propel creative thinking across cities and industries.We want to build a network of people who are excited to make with meaning, value the diversity of creativity and see the opportunities in collaboration.

Local Global
Citizen to citizen information exchange happens regularly and instantly via social media. How can this exchange of information be harnessed for real world problem solving and social betterment?
What will your information exchange do? How will it help communities to help themselves? Consider local and global needs. Think off-grid communication, word of mouth, celebrating how and when people meet, communicate, share information and ideas. What makes a community of interest?

Offline Forever,Online Now
The internet (as we know it) has been around for over 5 years as a device for the public to transfer and consume information.As the content of the internet is digital, it can be corrupted, distorted, lost and mined.This information is both transient and temporary but that’s the nature of it’s medium. So what true value can we attribute to anything on-line, if any at all, as what we consume digitally may have little or no basis in our current ‘perceived’ reality at all. However, technology is constantly shifting, evolving and delivering new ways to interface with data and information, and the way we experience a cyber environment. We are currently facing a new policy that will enable the police to view and investigate all of our online activity—a greater level of personal observation/intrusion than ever before. Personal space and safety within the digital realm is now a questionable notion as we face conflicts of interest each time we’re asked for a new username, password or evidence of who we are.
But the internet or world wide web is an extra-ordinary and uba-rich example of the ‘artificial evolution—industries’ where the work-place is rapidly and exponentially evolving – creating a new set of demands, pressures and deadlines, now almost impossible to achieve without it’s assistance.Like a kind of new symbiotic reliance, our personal and professional ‘everything’ is firmly plugged in.
Our off-line environment, the physical and tangible environment around us has been around for millions of years. It has a completely different set of characteristics and qualities(or has it?). We can make, print and build with natural and artificial materials. We can present opportunities for physical experiences through art, design, consumption and interaction. If we read a book, newspaper or view a poster, we can see the surface, the content and the process—it is a (solid) truth. We still feel secure in the fact that we have money—coins and notes—in our pockets, the sense of touch triggers belief that something is there, it exists…

Satellite
An editorial or documentary provides a platform for viewers to engage with a particular area of interest. They gain insight into the subject matter by exploring content via a well designed and edited narrative. Good editorial design presents content in an innovative and dynamic way, be it through layout, composition, sequence and or rhythm, always encouraging the viewer to explore and discover as they travel through the narrative of the form. Ambitious documentation not only presents the information in a clear and accessible form but also creates a visual experience—revealing that world by providing an in-depth understanding and viewpoint. This project provides the opportunity to capture and then present a specific area of interest through a dynamic combination of different forms of visual communication including type, image, data, text, audio and motion.Depending on the area of investigation, this project will require you to adopt a number of roles. You will be the editor, director and designer – the project could offer you the opportunity to art direct photography shoots, write or source copy, create illustrations if it is a publication, or if it is a filmed documentary provides an opportunity to develop skills around pre-production and the technicalities of filming ie framing, composition, interviewing and editing.Once you have decided on your particular area, you will research and construct a map of that world in order to define your position, then organise and disseminate the content. The process of production will then involve forging the content into a navigable sequence that has structure, hierarchy and clarity of form. The approach, be it typographic, photography, live action, illustration animation etc. will contribute to the identity of the piece. This should reflect not only your editorial position but be appropriate to the content.The theme should be clear and accessible, do not choose an area that will prove difficult to access or research. You may have contributors with differing view points or opinions, it is your job to create an axis for this information and guide the viewer to a point of clarity. This work will be a sophisticated and well produced production—a device that will deliver a controlled visual experience.You may include sourced images, text or archive content however all contributions must be credited and if copyright issues are likely to restrict the use of the project, permissions should be sought. If text based, all text must be live and not body copy (Lorem Ipsum). The final outcome may be a one-off or form part of a series. It may be printed or digital whichever is the most appropriate form for your content.

Material Type
Letters join together to form words, words join together to form sentences, sentences join together to create paragraphs…together, meaning can be transmitted, received then understood. The typographic materialisation of language can have a significant effect on our perception and comprehension of these words. Via the processes of build and production plus use of engaging materials, the designer can add layers to the experience of reading.Along with typographic tools for creating, modifying and visualising language, there is also the opportunity to add meaning and value to the words by different construction methods, use of materials, spatial placement and production techniques deployed to manifest the design. Throughout history, the use of materials and production processes have added resonance to the meaning of words; the commitment to stone through carving and delicate, illuminated manuscripts all added depth to the surface, layering value to the words. However, these methods were often the only available and the preferred processes of the period. Today we have a multitude of materials and production methods at our disposal. We are surrounded by a material world that can be adapted, shaped, reconfigured and ultimately formed into powerful typographic visual experiences for the reader.Our perception of language through words can be significantly altered and enriched by the way we experience them in the physical realm—we can bring enhanced meaning to the experience of reading when we can feel, touch and circumnavigate language.This projects ask you to take a piece of text or quote that relates to visual culture or design then to explore the possible ways that the meaning can be enhanced when materials/production processes are specifically used to trigger a further understanding. When typography and words are purposefully constructed from different substances, substrates and mediums, another layer of intimation is attached—the words are no longer the single carrier of meaning.Through a series of experiments and material testing, you will develop a body of work that can articulate a range of meanings and experiences of your chosen text. From this body of work a final, resolved piece will be made in situ and documented for submission. The way the work is documented and delivered for submission may also contribute to the how the viewer gains an understanding of the message.

Mainstage
A festival is a period of celebration, where people gather to watch, listen and occasionally take part in art, design, performance, song, dance, literature, music, etc. It becomes a collective and unifying experience, one that offers relief from the day to day but also provides a platform for critical discourse among the masses.Festivals are usually a time-based event with content being offered over set days and weeks, at one venue or a series of locations. The Manchester International Festival sees artists, designers, musicians and performers create offerings in a diverse range of venues across the entire city. Other festivals are more specific and cater for a focussed area of interest. The Burning Man festival termed as a ‘transformative event’, sees people live out strange alter egos, creating pseudo sci-fi characterisations and constructing weird post-apocalyptic vehicles to charge around the Nevada desert.Whatever the nature and scale of the festival, it needs to be transmitted to potential attendees in advance. A relevant and informative image and identity has to be created then disseminated to potential punters via a controlled set of visual devices. These assist in forging a perceived image, so the viewer can connect with, relate to and ultimately attend the festival.

Jet Wash Culture
Coherent visual systems have many applications in graphic design, from the obvious – branding and identity projects – through to more subtle implementations in posters, moving image, editorial and information design. This brief is an opportunity to create a visual identity in a cultural context, in the form of a series of promotional pieces in digital and print formats, using type only, or type and image.
The V&A is one of London’s largest and most prestigious museums. As well as holding one of the world’s most impressive collections of ancient artefacts it regularly engages with and presents exhibitions that challenge and reveal sections of contemporary visual culture through design and curation. The museum hosts many events that platform new and exciting artists, designers and creative clusters—allowing them to explore ideas with a diverse range of media and methods.

Cultural Identity Crisis
More often, graphic designers are becoming involved earlier within the construction process of projects, either product or service based—we do not always end up just prettifying, glossing and polishing and the last stage before the main launch.The abilities of graphic designers to write, conceptualise, think, develop before the visual articulation has been somewhat underestimated for years, especially since the rising level of importance attributed to PR and marketing agencies, who have presided over this territory in recent times.

Axix Edit the world
A strong editorial publication provides a platform for readers to engage with a particular area of interest. They gain insight into the subject matter by exploring content via a well designed and edited narrative. An editorial design often presents content in an innovative and dynamic way, encouraging the reader to explore and discover as they travel through the publication.An ambitious editorial not only presents the information in a clear and accessible form but also creates a visual experience—revealing that world by providing an in-depth understanding and offering an editorial stance. Editorials are a one-to-one interface, an intimate process of reading and looking that can illuminate a world for the reader/viewer. This project provides the opportunity to capture then present the content through a dynamic combination of different forms of visual communication such as type, image, data, text and so on.

Typo-Hacker
Systems are orderly groupings of interdependent components linked together according to a plan that achieves a specific objective. Systems exist to help us navigate, understand and consume complex data and information. Systems provide us with a consistent structure that allow us to control content. Systems are an ever present and requisite part of modern society—which in itself is a system.A hacker is a person who gains unauthorised access to a system, then purposefully alters, affects or corrupts the content.

Type Tribute
Almost all typefaces are designed, crafted and refined with consummate care and attention. It takes considerable knowledge, skill and time to draw a single letterform in such a way that it works harmoniously with other letters to build legible words, lines, sentences and paragraphs. Letterforms have little value on their own but combined in mechanised sequences, they constitute of the most powerfully significant systems of the civilised world, disseminating language in solid form.Letters are also physical things with purely, visual, stylistic attributes that may be the result of ideas, technologies or cultural trends. The identifiable features of typefaces place them within a chronological lineage that allows them to be usefully classified in groupings.Type’s visual features allow it to function not solely as a passive vehicle for words but as an active mediator providing tone, emphasis and style to visual communications, often in ways that readers are unaware of. It is therefore considered a key skill for a graphic designer to be able to work with type in order to attract, persuade and inform.

Supra Specimen
The type specimen was/is a powerful tool for communicating the form, shape and nuances of a typeface. During the 90s and with the development of technology, we saw an evolution in the type specimen. Designers began to explore the specimen as a performance, showcase format—a device to go beyond the traditional display of scaled type. The type specimen offered an opportunity to test the limitations of the typeface.Our environment is saturated with type and language—shop fronts, signage, screens, packaging, labels, clothing etc. Type is everywhere, big and small, micro and micro and is uncensored in terms of form and structure. We can observe beautiful, traditional letterforms one moment and see twisted, warped characters the next. All this type is purposeful and functional—it communicates information and messages. As a species, we’ve evolved to readily consume type and language daily.

LAE
Language in the environment has the power to communicate to diverse and/or focused audiences. This can be passive or direct, depending on the positioning, the use of words and the methods of production deployed to render the message.As we walk past messages in the environment we can choose to look or ignore, to engage or to dismiss, or can we? Do we always consume on some level or can we consciously filter what is relevant, important or interesting to our lives? In a world where media forces are constantly attempting to tailor messaging to you, the environment can provide a refreshing place for, ‘chance visuals’ and ‘altered perspectives’.Typography enhances language by transmitting meanings and messages in a visual form. Typography personalises language by creating a specific visual form and tone—this becomes a key interface for optical comprehension and cognitive decoding.The meaning at the heart of the message is processed, conveyed and entrusted to the typography. Therefore, the role and responsibility of the designer is paramount in ensuring that the form empowers the content.This task challenges you to observe then capture a ‘message’ space, devise a suitable site-specific message and finally transmit it in an appropriate typographic form.

Graphicology
Travel is a necessary activity one takes in order to discover, to venture and ultimately to reach a physical or possibly spiritual destination. The destination is often regarded as the end goal or the termination point of the journey. However, our sensory experience along the way is often charged with revelation and disclosure that fuels inspiration to spawn concepts and ideas. The chosen mode of transport and the time of day/night can alter and affect our perception and experience of a trip too. Sometimes a journey is a repetitive element incorporated into our daily routine where, after a while, familiarity plays numb to our senses and banality sets in. Sometimes, it will be a path you will tread only once.

Worldly Heavens
This brief asks you to consider the connection between world-building and computer graphics by develop your own world through the tools and media of computer graphics. Both of these terms are broad and meaningful: World-building might refer to metaverses, brand ecosystems, performance, speculative design and art, cinema, video games, simulations and recreations to name a few. Computer graphics (or synthetic images) might be considered as digital collage, CGI and rendering, machine learning through GANs, AR, VR, XR and game engines etc.There are two potential approaches to this brief:Begin with a particular technology, tool or platform. What type of worlds are imaginable through its particular affordances? How might the tool be used in new and interesting ways?Begin with a world-building process using an established set of methods or develop your own. Then experiment to find the tools or technology appropriate to bring it to life.The important thing is that the technology used for the outcome complements the world and allows us a new, unique or privileged insight or understanding of something new. This outcome should demonstrate an advanced understanding of how tools and ideas work together to enhance an audience or user’s experience or knowledge.

Watertight Campaign
Over the last 30 years, the charity has become one of the most respected organisations that deals solely with water, sanitation and hygiene issues. However the public does not currently have the same connection or awareness of them compared to other international charities who deliver humanitarian aid in a broader sense.

System Hacker
We are surrounded by visual, graphic systems. They are constructed with images, typography, illustration, shapes, instructions, rules, structures, sound and colour. They help us navigate and consume data, information and brands.As designers, we can affect how these systems behave and what they communicate by modifying, shifting, distorting or hacking the content. These new counter-formsand interventions can be powerful toolsfor messaging or become experimental territories for new thinking & discovery…

Symbiosis
Many ‘things’ people, organisms, and culture share a mutually beneficial relationship with a specific other. They may appear as separate entities but they share a positive symmetry. Often, complex ideas can be best communicated without long explanatory texts, but by symbols with cultural meaning.

Substance Abuse
Once it has been established which substance, product or tool you relyon or use the most on a day to day basis – e.g. cigarettes, TV, mobilephone, car, hair gel, chocolate, tea, etc. – document at least a 24 hourperiod where you try to survive without the identified object/substance.(For some subjects the duration will have to be longer to understandits full impact).

Sound and Vision
The British Library holds a unique archive of curated sound collections including accents and dialects; art, literature and performance; classical music; environment and nature; jazz and popular music; oral history; and world and traditional music. They have invited our Year Three Graphic and Media Design students to visualise their collection to promote the archive to new audiences.

Communities of Practice
This project builds on the core principles of Social Design with an emphasis on:
Community-building: Collective, Interdependent, CooperativePrototypingMake and Finish of Final OutcomeYou will start by identifying your area of interest and honing in to a community of practice that you would like to develop.For the introductory sessions on Social Design, we focused on communicating strategy. Here the emphasis will be onthe final outcome itself to reflect the ethos, approach, materials, techniques and processes related to your community.

Soapbox
The key to effective communication in design for advertising ispersuasive argument. Taking a side, an approach, viewpoint or beliefand being able to present that point-of-view clearly and convincingly isa real challenge. A designer needs to be able to address prejudice andpreconceptions, challenge stereotypes, engage and motivate theiraudience through design and strategy.

Social Design
This project is intended as an introduction to three of the core principles of Social Design:Audience and ValuesMethods of Communication and EngagementPresentation of ConceptsThis is an individually tailored campaign, so you will need to research your audience and consider their ambitions, values, motivations, behaviours, routines etc. in order to identify useful key insights. You can then use this information to test a variety of ways to instigate the required behaviour change or activity and prototype your ideas.Having identified the most appropriate methods to use, design a final pitch presentation that effectively communicates your solution, rationale and how it will work. Consider the most appropriate way of explaining your concept.

Self initiated project
Self Initiated Projects in your final Graphic and Media Design Unit are an opportunity to initiate new projects or continue working with themes, materials and/or processes explored in previous projects. You can also see them as an opportunity to link your studio work to your interests and professional ambitions. You can further enhance and develop skills; demonstrate critical or technical expertise; pursue independent practice;and provide your portfolio with specific content.A well written brief with clear focus and direction can provide you with the opportunity to undertake a practical project to address your personal focus within graphic and media design.

People Make Places
This project is about observation, data-gathering and mapping, communities, insights and site-specific public messages.It provides an opportunity to develop your skills in primary research with a socio-anthropological approach to audience engagement in order to produce unexpected and meaningful public interventions.

Lens
A phrase often associated with the practiceof motion design (and the variousdisciplines that are connected to it) is thenotion of the study. The terminology alludesto both artistic practice and scientificmethod, both of which have relevancehere.A study is an activity in trying to understanda small section of a project or principlethrough experimentation and practise. At itsessence it is a process through which toexplore, interpret, and understand an areaof interest.The nature of a study is dependent on thesubject and a designers individual process,focus and skill set. For example:A study might be observing andrecreating something tangible and objectivewithin digital software - like the physicalqualities of light, movement or materials.A study might be probing the limits of atechnical concept or approach – likeproceduralism, simulation or rendering.A study might be focused on exploringhow to capture something intangible andsubjective - such as the experience ofemotion, memory, or identity.There are a number of benefits of workingthrough a project as a series of smallerstudies. These include:It is a way of breaking down somethingvery complex into constituent parts whichcan be explored individually.It is a way of thinking through makingi.e. exploring how to understand asubject through experimentation,reflection and iteration.Through this form of practice digital artistsuse the process of making, and the qualitiesof hardware or software to explore topics,themes and phenomena. That is what thisbrief is all about.

Mind over Matter
This is an opportunity to develop your skillsas a socially engaged designer, consider awide range of platforms, formats, media andapproaches; physical or digital. It is aboutraising awareness, challenging stigma andisolation, encouraging empathy, andpromoting support services. It is not aboutdiagnosing or solving people’s mentalhealth issues.

LifeLine
key areas forinvestigation:Designing for the public sector –examples of good practice from in houseor specialist agencies or studios.Accessibility and inclusivity in designFor example clarity of communication, literacylevels, appropriate language, culturalnorms and stereotypes, visualmetaphors and so on.• Awareness of audience needs andmeasuring impact.• Client and designer collaboration andrelationships.• Working creatively within budget andresource limitations.

Jobs on the Out
Jobs on the Out is an information service and directory to help offenders get employmentwhen they leave prison.The aim is for him to be able to pitch ideas to prison management in order to secure future funding for the service.

Inside Outside
Using a specified place, space or object,explore the potential of non-text based,visual and graphic language to communicate thenotion of inside and outside.Using narrative graphic image sequencingmethods to explore how we communicatemeaning with a consistent narrative.Consider key visual, spacial and otherqualities such as materials, functionality,territories. Objects have a top, bottom andsides, proportions. Spaces and places haveexit points, boundaries and liminal spaces,such as where one space begins andanother ends.Consider your audience - those who willview your narrative imagery. Who are theyand what are you communicating? Are youhoping to inform, instruct, persuade orpromote?

In Thirty Years
Animation offers numerous design tools and methods we can use for speculative explorations of the future using the tools of graphic and media design.
Animation offers you tools, such as movement, pace, and rhythm, for speculating on the future. Do we move differently in the clothing or climate conditions of your future? Does a city centre or motorway sound different?

Echoes
This brief looks at the relationshipbetween mapping, and technology(established & emerging).We tend to connect the terminology ofmapping with the charting and display ofgeographical information. While it is truethat many maps deal with location data,the breadth of information which can bemapped is limitless and includes real orimaginary space, experience, and time- amongst countless others.Fundamentally mapping is:• A structure that presents, explainsand documents information.• A process that reveals relationshipsbetween points of data.• An action that compels designers toengage with their surroundings.The process of mapping, and mapsthemselves have evolved alongsidetechnology. Technology offers us adiverse set of approaches for datacollection, analysis and presentation.Like mapping, technologies allow us toview information from alternativeperspectives, and reveal that whichwould otherwise be hidden.

Focus x Format
This project is intended as an introductionto approaches relevant to Design forSocial Innovation and Digital Experience:• Exploring alternative technologies –their function, strengths andconstraints.• Considering audience experience andvalues.• Constructing clear, inclusive andengaging ways of presenting amessage.• Exploring immersive storytellingthrough technologies.

Homage
Evolution never stops, and rarely are weafforded the time and opportunity to take amoment to stop and pay homage (giverespect or acknowledgment or appreciation) tothe moments, environments and people wehave engaged with — this brief is abouttaking the time to evaluate andcommunicate your perspective.

Typo Graphic Action
The context for your exploration is movingimage that examines the properties oftypographic design, motion and sequence tocommunicate effectively.From title sequences to adverts, graphic art,documentary video, and beyond, kinetictypography expands our understanding ofwhat typography can be – and releases it fromthe constraints and conventions of the printedpage.Emphasis will be on experimental andexploratory investigation. You will beintroduced to film language, simple motion graphicstechniques, and conceptdevelopment for moving image throughworkshops that support the project.

Change
This project is intended for students whowish to further explore Design for Changeand Social Innovation through designpractice. The project will cover:• Incorporating ethical concerns intoapplied design practice.• Exploring a variety of designplatforms, from hand-made to digital,and how they might work together todeliver a message.• Developing a campaign brand.• Testing ideas on social media.• Design activism and corporate socialresponsibility.

Performing Bodies of Information
The way information is distributed and viewedis fractured, offering us glimpses intohalf-truths and in some cases completefiction.We encounter different actorsparticipating in this information landscape; ina study by Carnegie Mellon researcherslooked through more than 200 million tweetsabout the pandemic, finding out that 45%were sent by accounts that behave more likecomputerised robots than people.

Time Capsule
Type and image has existed for thousandsof years and is a ubiquitous form ofcommunication seen in various formats.What is interesting to consider is the way ithas evolved through changes in ideology andtechnology. The combination of type andimage is a powerful tool to deliver engagingmessages and rich content.

2D 3D
Three dimensional space is a geometricsetting in which three values (parameters)are required to determine the position ofan element for example point.This project focuses upon the ways in whichgraphic and media design can simplifylocation and space into two dimensions forprint. Physical aspects of your design; scale,folding methods, paper choice and so on,should also be tested.

Hammer
This Major Project brief affords you theopportunity to declare and demonstrate thatgraphic and media design can be a tool forchange or to highlight the need for change.In a world where the very notion of truth isquestioned, where cynicism has replacedidealism or optimism, graphic and mediadesign tools and methods can be deployedto question orthodox political polemic, tocommunicate personal perspectives or tohighlight the dynamic tensions betweenwhere we are as peoples and where wewant to be.

Data Action
This project is intended as an introduction to approaches relevant to Data Visualisation and Design for Change:Exploring alternative ways of representing data.Using data to construct a message/argument.Considering tone of voice.Devising and adapting appropriate formats for print and social media.

Type and Place
Language in the environment has the powerto communicate to diverse and or focusedaudiences. This can be passive or direct,depending on the positioning, the use ofwords and the methods of productiondeployed to render the message.As we walk past messages in theenvironment we can choose to look orignore, to engage or to dismiss, or can we?Do we always consume on some level or canwe consciously filter what is relevant,important or interesting to our lives? In aworld where media forces are constantlyattempting to tailor messaging to you, theenvironment can provide a refreshing placefor, chance visuals and alteredperspectives.Typography enhances language bytransmitting meanings and messages in avisual form. Typography personaliseslanguage by creating a specific tone ofvoice this becomes a key interface foroptical comprehension and cognitivedecoding.The meaning at the heart of the message isprocessed, conveyed and entrusted to thetypography. Therefore, the role andresponsibility of the designer is paramount inensuring that the form empowers the contentand resonates with the viewer.This task challenges you to observe thencapture a message space, devise a suitablesite-specific message and finally transmit itin an appropriate typographic form.

New Order
Organisation is a core principle of all design practice and is the foundation of information design. It is based on the interpretation and communication of differences and similarities between things.

Sign of the Times
In 2019, society and commerce continues tocommunicate through symbols andsymbolic communication; hand gestures,body language, avatars, logos, icons, emojisas well as the interplay between objects,aesthetics and multi sensory technologies.Commercially, it can be argued that theproducts of multi-national sports companiesare the symbols themselves. Nike no longerrequires its swoosh to speak to theiraudience, the sneakers themselvescommunicate modernity, egalitarianism, thefuture, success and other qualities that thebrand wish to be associated with.Symbols that communicate meaning neednot be two dimensional. Indeed, manysymbols are now conceived and designedto exist - and to be read - in a virtual space.Meaning can be arrived at by interactingwith sculptural forms, in a real or imaginedspace. In this project, we will explore therelationship between symbol construction,implicit and explicit meaning andcommunication and the digital realm.

Meta Type
The type specimen was and is a powerful tool for communicating the form, shape and nuances of a typeface. During the nineties and with the development of technology, we saw an evolution in the type specimen. Designers began to explore the specimen as a performance, showcase format—a device to go beyond the traditional display of scaled type. The type specimen offered an opportunity to test the limitations of the typeface.Our environment is saturated with type and language—shop fronts, signage, screens, packaging, labels, clothing etc. Type is everywhere, big and small, micro and micro and is uncensored in terms of form and structure. We can observe beautiful, traditional letterforms one moment and see twisted, warped characters the next. All this type is purposeful and functional—it communicates information and messages. As a species, we’ve evolved to readily consume type and language daily.

Physical Language
Experimentation and testing is key to this project. Consider how physical and material processes can convey that message and begin testing different approaches.You might take inspiration from landscape, architecture, found objects, interaction of materials, interplay of light and shade, projection, collage, cutting, photographic techniques etc.Three dimensional work might take advantage of a making process or material, two dimensional work might be formed from a physical process that is captured by photography, photogram, impression, or digital processes.

Lexicon
Bring typographic skill and subtly to your work and a rational consideration of the treatment of images and text, implement these values in a modern context.As designers, it is your role to interpret and understand the context and content and relay this information through typography, layout and printed matter.

Static Action
This project is intended as an introductionto approaches relevant to SymbolicGraphic Communication and MovingImage Sequencing:• Exploring static and moving imagemeans of communicating meaning.• Explicit and implicit meaning.• Constructing graphic imagery for printand screen media.

Interference
This project is intended as an introduction to the core principles and approaches relevant to Design for Change and Digital Exploration:• Digital Methods of Communication and Engagement• Audience, Place and Ethics• Presentation of ConceptsThis is a site-specific brief, so you will need to conduct primary research for a specific location and its users – identify relevant values, behaviours, routines, landscaping etc. – in order to extract useful key insights on which to base your intervention. You can use this information to then explore a variety of digital ways to effect an environmental or behavioural change and prototype your ideas.

Codex
Make comprehensive notes, examine major themes, consider: characters, tone of voice, use of language, editing, the atmosphere.Research beyond the text itself. For example, look at the writer, the style of writing, the story, the era it was made, how, where and when it was written. Contemplate the social and political conditions, and what is actually being said. Allow this interrogation to inform every aspect of the design and production:– Typefaces– Point size– Page proportions or Format– Grid and text area– Order and pagination– Page numbers– Full bleed or border– Positioning– Binding– Front and back cover– Hardcover or Softcover– Dust jacket or sleeve– Paper stockApproach typographic detailing with a high level of clarity and rigour. Regard the use of space, structure and composition when formatting and setting layers of typographic information – space alone is a good tool to differentiate between layers of hierarchical meaning this can be in the form of: indents, line breaks, multiple grid columns, sizeand placement of text area. But, it is certainly not the only way. Consider the rhythm, flow and pace – how each page leads on from the next.

Lingo
Emerging technology is a term generallyused to describe a new technology but itmay also refer to the continuing developmentof an existing technology. Current topicalterms include Artificial Intelligence, IoT,Blockchain but due to the nature of constantchange these themes are relative dependenton who is doing the looking.Due to the nature of unknowns in emergingtechnologies this allows room for play,imagination and experimentation.
Language has evolved with the use of technology, new words are created to describe thingsthat didn’t exist while words have disappeared with technology that becomes obsolete.The underpinning of communication still comes with the creation of type or text (a messagewith intention) in order to express our thoughts to each other. However we are now able to doso faster and with less geographical restrictions as ever before. This has also shiftedbehaviours and the way with which we speak to one another. There is an expectation of aspecific kind of response depending on the platform in which you are communicating with.

Encode and decipher
Augmented Reality:Explore the overlay of digital information on physical space via Augmented Reality.Creative Coding:Explore generative, responsive visuals through creative coding to produce a working web page.Physical Computing:Explore physical computing, enabling physical inputs to generate responses.

Diabetes UK
Type 1 Diabetes insulin managed.Type 2 Diabetes managed with diet and exercise.-over 40 yrs old contract it in overall population.-over 25 yrs old contract it in Asian + Afro-Caribbean populations.This is a SOCIAL PROBLEM, need to change behaviour.

Colour, Space and Story
Colour not as emotive decoration, but asvehicle for meaning. Explore how colour isutilised as an invaluable communicationtool. Explore how colour can be used toarticulate mood, tone or feeling. Also, howthe presence - lack of colour - impacts uponcommunication.Take notice of contrast and harmony in theuse of colour in digital and analogue forms.

Two Points
The locations can be indoors, outdoors or both; they may be antipodes of each other or just sitting next to one another with a common boundary. You will need to have direct access to them and be able to do so repeatedly in order to undertake this project, the initial aim is to gain an accurate understanding of both locations and the potential themes that could be explored there. You will need to make a number of recordings using different methods. This documentation will help you to observe, analyse and appreciate the environment – one visit will not suffice and in-depth exploration is key.The locations do not need to contain exotic or weird features, it is more important to select your physical spaces and define their precise dimensions, content, function, tone and so on at the earliest opportunity. How you process this observed information or data and how you respond to these spaces is much more significant than the subject themselves.

Manifest
This brief is an opportunity to take yourpre-existing passion project and push it tothe next level — public, functional andsustainable as a product or service.You will be expected to build the visual andoperational materials needed to either:Present your business for funding or Publically launch the company tomaximise public engagement and sales.Throughout, we will introduce methods oftesting the validity of your idea via: marketingtechniques, management structures, as wellas funding, sponsorship and partnerships— avenues to consider according to yourbusiness.It is essential to have a clear idea of what youaim to launch at the end of this project beforetaking part in this brief.

2035
Forecasting is one of the processes throughwhich we speculate on, and prepare for thefuture. Within the context of technology,society and political development, a 15 yearprojection is the outer limit of reasonableprediction accuracy.15 years is a long time. To put it in contextthe world of 2005 was one without theiPhone, without Twitter, Instagram, orSnapchat. YouTube and Facebook were intheir infancy and the world was 3 yearsfrom the worst financial crisis since the1930s. In short, in 15 years the way we talkto one another, relate to one another, formopinions on politics, society and theenvironment, our financial futures, our work,our health, and our love life have beendrastically altered through technology, andshifting social, economic and politicaldynamics.The next 15 years are likely to see evengreater levels of change as increasinglydisruptive, global-scale influences mould theworld of 2035. This is your opportunity touse the processes, methods, and ormaterials of graphic and media design as atool to speculate on the social, political ortechnological landscape 15 years from now.

2036
It’s a difficult time to think about the future,In fact the future has been difficult to thinkabout for some time. This has largely beendown to our slowly receding ability toaccess a collectively envisioned futurebeyond the climate crisis. The globalpandemic has added an additional andimmediate uncertainty to the way we viewthings to come.However, with uncertainty comesopportunity, and if we have learned anythingover the last year it has been thatcollectively we have the power todramatically alter our way of life whenneeded.Now, more than ever, we need to constructalternative visions of where we are headed- both good and bad. It is through theseactivities that we can make decisions aboutour future as global citizens - steeringourselves towards the futures we want andaway from those we don’t.This brief is an opportunity to do just that.

Say What
As final year students you will have realised that Design for Advertising is not necessarily communicating to audiences through obvious commercial channels reusing the same tired strategies. By demonstrating an ability to subvert standard practice, question traditional approaches but also design responsibly you will better placed to frame the future of the industry that you are about to enter. By applying what you have learned on the Design for advertising course you are now able to make yourself heard, to stand out and to be remembered.

Media
Consider linking a website to specific peer-to-peer technologies suchas mobile phones, viral emails, ipods, pda’s etc. Consider a way ofintegrating elements that is particularly effective in reaching yourdesired audience. Consider carefully the timing of how you releasethe content of the campaign message. Is one part provided via emailand completed when the person clicks on a website? Does a personregister their interest in a website first and is then provided (rewarded)with your message? Consider also integrating digital approaches withother existing environmental advertising techniques in real space.Make sure that ultimately the campaign strategy makes sense forthe aims of the campaign and would be desirable to each of itsintended audience.

Ideas factory
You are aiming for win win ideas – the brand gains good will, loyalty, awareness or sales etc. Its ‘customers’ are rewarded for their engagement and not just in monetary terms. Consider how attributes such as sustainability or green issues are used, discussed or exploited by commercial companies. Who do we believe is really trying to be ethical and whose credentials are we suspicious of and why? Could your chosen company do more with its internal communications or in dealings with suppliers, partners? You might propose new ways in which a brand could build on the relationship it already has with its customers to the benefit of society, the environment or a charitable cause. How could they communicate more effectively about their corporate social responsibility? Consider the practicalities and affordability of your proposals and how you would persuade a company to adopt them.

Food Myths
This is a list of such issues supplied by Cranfield:Confusion about nutrition labelling. What is healthy and what is not and how to find out from food labels which are often confusing and inconsistent for example some supermarkets use the FSA traffic light scheme, others use their own.Inappropriate marketing. Some foods are marketed in a way to mislead the public about health claims. What is the scientific basis for such claims and indeed for government recommendations?Fruit and vegetables. Government recommendations are five portions per day, but what is a portion? And what are the most healthy fruit and vegetables? What constitutes fresh as some have been harvested from overseas and shipped to UK.Low fat foods. Usually when the fat is removed manufacturers add sugar to give the product taste which makes them more unhealthy than the full fat version. Also, not all fat is unhealthy, it is the type of fat that is importantUse of supplements. Should only be used if you know you have some mild deficiency, and there is a need to know details on toxicity with advice from health professionals important. Problems with self-medication and again inappropriate health claims.

Census 2011
A limited number of agency internships for outstanding work are being offered as an incentive during the summer of 2011 and successful work maybe showcased via the official Census website.

Brand Promotion
Consider the delivery mechanism for this publication: how will the audience access it? How will they consume it?Consider how attributes such as sustainability or green issues are used, discussed, or exploited by commercial companies. Who do we believe is trying to be ethical and whose credentials are we suspicious of and why?Do you feel that your chosen company could do more with its internal communications or in dealings with suppliers, partners and so on? If so, design the publication for those particular audiences.You might identify that a brand already has a strong relationship with its customers and could create a document to make them aware of a benefit to society, developments in the environment or a charitable cause.How can the brand communicate more effectively about its CSR? Consider the practicalities and affordability of your publication and how you would persuade a company to distribute it.

We love our audience
Make sure that you talk to a representative sample and identify acommon cause. Use existing organisations as gateways to yourcommunity if possible for example Residents’ associations, Age ConcernCentres and so on.Use appropriate research methods for example avoid lengthy questionnaires.Be sensitive about how you collect and document information, seerecommended sources and approaches.

Import Export
You could also consider local issues that would benefit from globaldiscussion and international links or support networks.

With You
What information do you need to know in order to have a clear brief? What role am I playing in this process or in this team?What is the client asking for? What is the message?Who is the audience?What are the restrictions or key considerations?

SALE Everything must go
What is an exhibition?What is meant by the term curate?What is the theme? How can the idea manifest itself?Demographic?What can be achieved? Time? Place? Budget? Team or contribution?Window displays? Visual Merchandising? Private view?Preparation or production like Cleaning, painting, podium or stands, shelves and so on.

Pitch itAvoid nationalistic stereotypes and visual clichés. Avoid using filmstills in your promotion as the programme is unconfirmed and thecurators would not want to promote one director above another. Thisis an art-house film festival and you should consider how you mightencourage different audiences to attend, achieve maximum mediacoverage and showcase the country’s film industry in a positive andoriginal way.

Repurpose
Both the physical outcome and the 60-second spot will consist of previously-used materialsSteer clear of pastiche and cliche; focus instead on repurposing the material for a new function and or needWhat happens to your design after use?The new advertisement must be distributed via vimeo, youtube or similar online broadcast systemWhich audience might need to receive the message?

