Youth Worldwide
Campaign concept or strategy presented in an appropriate stand-alone format with accompanying sample designed materials.
You could suggest an overall creative strategy and way forward for Youth Worldwide with indicative content.Or you could choose to focus on a specific idea and explore a particular visual design approach in depth.Consider a range of media and how they are linked eg. online platform and content, event (physical or digital), exhibition, a range of graphic products, webinar, award scheme, showcase platform, networking etc.How would you launch the campaign? eg. with a series of videos on YouTube, an event, printed posters in colleges etc.Who are the competition? eg. D&AD, Behance, YCN etc.Consider an appropriate format for communicating and presenting your concept, as if for an industry pitch.

Local Global
Visualise the communication strategy and design the key public-facing elements for your approach in order to inform, instruct and persuade potential stakeholders to get involved.
A final presentation of strategy in an appropriate format that includes a rationale/statement of intent (referencing location specific information), plus examples/prototypes of proposed media (analogue with supplementary digital media if appropriate) in order to communicate your information exchange.

Offline Forever,Online Now
You can be macro or micro is your exploration and the outcome format will be as a resultof what is discovered, revealed and communicated.

Satellite
Either a resolved editorial submitted in a bound printed format or as a digital publication.If it is a video documentary it should have a maximum duration of 5 minutes and submitted as a high res .mov file.

Material Type
A resolved, physical typographic work. The final format will be as a result of the exploration.

Mainstage
A set of appropriate visual applications that form a media package of assets. This may include online and offline posters, flyers, moving image and short films for social media, campaign items, non-profit merchandise, way-finding and signage. This will allow you to develop a body of work that is most useful for your portfolio and your professional trajectory.You may also wish to extend the applications into other print collateral, digital media or social media or environmental design as appropriate to communicating the brand.

Jet Wash Culture
A set of appropriate visual applications that form a media package of assets. This should include printed posters and digital/moving image pieces.

Cultural Identity Crisis
Identity design / the system & the guidelinesStationery—letterhead, business cards, comps, e.signatureMain Launch PosterEvent listings device—for printBag—carrier or otherSpecific show poster example + related flyerWebsite design—minimum of homepage + events listingOne full page launch advert— for print.You may also wish to extend the applications into other social media campaign formats and explore other ways to promote and communicatethe brand.

Axis: Edit the world
Depending on the area of investigation, this project will require you to adopt a number of roles. You will be the editor in chief and designer but may also have to art direct photography shoots, write/source copy and create illustrations for the publication. Once you have decided on your particular area, you will research and construct a map of that world in order to define an editorial position and to organise and interrogate the content. The process of design, editing and art directing will then evolve the content into a navigable sequence that has structure, hierarchy and clarity of form. The typographic approach, photography, illustration etc. will become the identity of the piece and should reflect the editorial position and be relevant to the content.The theme of the editorial should be clear and accessible, do not choose an area that is difficult to access or research. You may have contributors with differing view points or opinions, it is your job to create an axis for this information and guide the reader/viewer to a point of clarity. This work will be a sophisticated and well produced production—a device that will deliver a controlled visual experience, it is not a ‘zine’.All the content in the editorial must be generated and originated specifically for the project. You may include content provided by contributors—all text must be live, not body copy (Lorem Ipsum). The publication may be a one-off or form part of a series. It may be printed or digital or both. Please ensure that all content used in your work has copyright clearance.
A resolved editorial submitted in a bound printed format or as a digital publication.

Typo-Hacker
A final outcome which shows how and why your system has been hacked with visual evidence of interventions using the language and medium of typography.

Type Tribute
A 12 inch vinyl LP package.You must design the front and back cover, the inner sleeve and the record label. All of the content, including song titles/track listings, sleeve notes and label information will be authored by you on the basis of your research into the typeface and the title.A coordinated cassette package.A coordinated digital download format.
Type only: all outcomes will be typographic: you must not use any representative, figurative images.You can to incorporate texture, tone, abstract shapes and typographic furniture into the design.All outcomes are to be limited to two colours (plus the paper stock).Be brave, be bold: experiment with your typeface in order to unlock its true potential. Consider format, production, finish, folding, tactility and materials.This is an excellent opportunity to use LCC technical resource areas.

Supra Specimen
A designed and printed single colour type specimen or series of specimens.A digital sting. A short moving or interactive element that highlights and promotes the specimen.

LAE
This can be in any format suitable for submission but should be self-explanatory and executed to a professional level.A presentation that demonstrates location, context, insights, concept and delivery method.

Graphicology
You are asked to produce three individual pieces of graphic work in response to an investigation based on a journey.

Worldly Heavens
A digital working prototype or demonstration. As the technical directions of the brief are very broad, this should be agreed with your tutor but should demonstrate how your project works and what an audience or user experience of it is.

Watertight Campaign
What action do you want the target market to take and how will success be measured? Prove that your concept is big enough to work across a wide-range of media over a long-period of time using a range of sample material and visual mock-ups.

System Hacker
A final digital presentation (e.g. InteractivePDF, e-pub) that demonstrates your system intervention, its contents and its potential to communicate. The system intervention can manifest as a physical or digital form, or both.

Symbiosis
Create two graphic symbols that communicate the symbiotic relationshipbetween two organisms, people, or things that share a mutually beneficial co-existence.Save and export your symbols as 500 pixel square 300dpi jpegs or PDFs.Do not submit vector/eps files. Your designs must demonstrate a visual graphic consistency. Colour may be used, specifically to communicate meaning. Include research, workshop exercises, iterations, sketches with reflective notes and captions.Place your symbols in a media context. Where could they be seen, why and how?Produce an animatic or storyboard that demonstrates how your two symbols could interact to communicate meaning. 

Substance Abuse
Presentation folder containing:Visualisation of one-week consumption (holiday project).Recording of your own 24 hour abstinence period.Campaign materials, including:Campaign statement that clearly states the aim of the campaign, theapproach you have chosen and the tone of the campaign.Final campaign designs which should include a range of media/formats.Results of campaign testing.

Sound and Vision
Create graphical works in any media using sound recordings from the British Library asthe inspiration. 

Communities of Practice
A statement or strategy for your community of practice, setting out thewho, what, why, how of the community you have identified.One final outcome that reflects the ethos and working methods of your community of practice, executed to high level of finish showcasing materials, techniques, and processes relevant to your community.

Soapbox
Once you have been assigned a topic, you are asked to carry out thefollowing exercises:research thoroughly using both primary and secondary sources. what factual information can you find out but also what people (yourpotential audience) already know/think about the issue.analyse and edit this research in order to present 5 strongarguments FOR the issue and 5 AGAINST it.produce visualisations of these arguments.write a brief campaign statement.

Social Design
This can be in any format suitable for hand-in but should be self-explanatory and executed to a professional level.

Self initiated project
You will need to specify a project proposal. All Self Initiated Projects must be proposed, discussed and agreed with your tutor. Know what you want to achieve, what areas you wishto explore and then what you aim to produce deliverables and the means of doing so.Self Initiated Project proposals may require re-writing to ensure clear focus and direction. If your tutor raises concerns over the credibility of your Self Initiated Project proposal, these must be addressed. This needs to be done as soon as possible to ensure you spend your time working on the project.

People Make Places
Present your final designs in the form of a professional proposal or visual pitch, suitable for a client presentation.Site-specific formats could include Temporary exhibition, Digital displays, Interactive interfaces, Printed matter, Guerilla graphics.

Lens
Your motion design outcome. This may include but is not limited to a film or set ofsequences. It should be delivered in a manner appropriate for a specific context andaudience. Where additional content or explanation is required to understand how youwant your audience to experience the outcome this should be included in an outcomepresentation.

Mind over Matter
But all design solutions should consider;A range of media and how they are linked like print, online platform and content, eventphysical or digital, social media, exhibition and so on.How you might launch the campaign eg. with a series of videos on the University of the Arts London website, anevent, printed posters in schools and so on.Appropriate formats for communicating and presenting your concept, as if for anindustry pitch.

LifeLine
A visual identity it has to sit within the overall Lifeline Project umbrella brand, but thementoring items should have a unifying look and feel.A practical leaflet to introduce the service.
A posters to promote the service.In-cell workbook.Certificate of completion.

Jobs on the Out
You can choose to focus on one of these four aspects, or explore the full range of media andapplications.

Inside Outside
Two single sided A2 sheets thatcommunicate Inside and Outside orinterior and exterior of your object orspace, that have a consistent andspecified approach to graphic languageand narrative communication.The sheets can be A3 sheets carefullytaped in to one A2 format or large formatprinted. Assessment will not be adverselyaffected by production cost.

In Thirty Years
A 1080px digital animation of 15-30 seconds, but the method of production is your choice; you might use stop-motion, digital illustration, photography, collage or performance.
In developing your speculative modes of communication, focus in on one main subject. It should be something you are especially interested in as a designer. It could be typography, bodily performance, sound or colour, for instance.Sound isn’t an after-thought. Think carefully about your sound as a key element of your animation, and have fun with it. How can you use sound that isn’t language to communicate?Your technique and style of animation should be chosen wisely in order to fit the project’s concept.

Echoes
A finished map. Your map can be in anyformat suitable for digital submission butshould be completed and executed to aprofessional level.

Focus x Format
A stand alone presentation of your finalconcept and outcome in an appropriatedigital format. This should include contextand rationale as well as a demo or visualisationof the idea (as if you were going to sendthis to the charity client as part of a pitchprocess).

Homage
As an output format you will select one ofthe following outputs; Projection Mapping,Documentary Film, or Augmented Reality.

Typo Graphic Action
The final 30 second moving imagesequence.A digital presentation for example InteractivePDF, e-pub, narrated movie thataccompanies the final moving image piece.It should contain a curated selection ofelements from your development processincluding:– A visually refined storyboard.– A visually refined selection of style framesthat present the development of the artistictreatment.– A selection of tests that demonstrate thedevelopment of key moments of motion.

Change
Final outcomes for your campaigncomprising of at least 3 different media(physical and or digital), presented in anappropriate digital format.Plus a brief statement of intent.

Performing Bodies of Information
This can be in any format suitable for digitalsubmission but should be self-explanatoryand executed to a professional level.

Time Capsule
A final digital presentation for example InteractivePDF, e-pub, or narrated movie that demonstratesthe time capsule, its contents and its potentialto communicate your theme. The timecapsule can manifest as a physical or digitalform, or both.

2D 3D
Create a multiple page document forprint in a non-traditional format and size,that communicates the qualities and otherinformation contained within your location.Submit either a final prototype or a welldocumented maquette or dummy withsupporting production instructions.The format, scale and size of the 2D 3Ddocument – folds, proportions and ratios,type size – must be inspired by the chosenlocation. Form = Content.There is no word count but a writtenaspect to your outcome is mandatory.Text and imagery must be self originated.

Hammer
Appropriate outputs as proposed to, and agreed by, your Major Project subject tutors asbeing demonstrative of the brief aims: a graphic and media design communication strategywith clear message, aim and audience.

Data Action
A set of images or moving images formatted for display on Instagram, with accompanying schedule.

Type and Place
Devise and prototype a site-specifictypographic intervention using 3D, print ordigital or a combination of these methods.Design a final stand-alone digitalpresentation of your idea suitable forsubmission to a client, location owner orfunding body.

New Order
A designed publication in a format appropriate to the subject that is ready for print.You should submit a PDF of the print-ready publication. This may be supplemented by photographic documentation of a mock-up of your publication if you have access to basic printing facilities, but is not essential. The work will be marked in relation to the learning outcomes and assessment criteria based on the content and design of theprint-ready PDF.

Sign of the Times
A physically made sculptural symbol.A digital submission to communicate thesculptural symbol to an online audience.

Meta Type
A digital sting. A short moving or interactive element that highlights and promotes the specimen.

Physical Language
Three outcomes created through physical processes.Three dimensional works should be at appropriate scale, or a two dimensional record or representation of the process.

Lexicon
Students will be required to submit one black and white, A4, double sided print for all of their assigned lexicon entries for hand in.

Static Action
A1 portrait format graphic image thatcommunicates a given seed word. A moving image sequence thatcommunicates a given seed word.

Interference
A presentation that demonstrates location, context, insights, concept and delivery methods.

Codex
A digital PDF presentation with three parts:One sample chapter using Influx Press text.One cover and or dust jacket design for example back cover, spine, front cover, or flaps.– Documentation of either a blank dummy book or a print specification, both can be included if necessary.

Lingo
Consider the evolution described above, how have those pivotal moments changed the socialvalues and behaviours in which we communicate with each other. What could this kind ofturning point in speech, language or methods of communication look like in the future? Basedon the research, create a novel scenario which could for example explore the extremeautomation of language, or a scenario that explores hybrid languages for a global community.

Encode and decipher
A creative outcome that reveals something about the object that can’t be seen, using one of the technologies listed above.Your submission for the project should be a working outcome where possible. However, given the technical limitations of remote working it may not be possible for all of you to achieve a working outcome, and you will not be penalised if you are unable to do so. We have outlined potential issues and options for delivery below.Whether you are handing in a working outcome, or one of the options listed below, we expect to see evidence of experimentation, testing and development of ideas using working technologies for example using free AR apps, tests with code, physical prototyping.

Diabetes UK 
Five minute presentation of prevention campaign for 18-30 yr olds.

Colour, Space and Story
Create a thirty second moving image sequence;filmic or motion graphics, exploring contentas well as other processes such as edits,transitions, composition and movement tobring to life your information or space.

Two points
An output in a form and format appropriate to comparing and contrasting the locations.

Manifest
Whichever path you choose, you are required to complete this project with finished outcomes that are ready to put into use, with either potential funders or future consumers.

2035
A creative output that communicates your 2035 vision. This should be in an appropriatemedia and format.

2036
Stage One – Construct a research presentationProduce a piece of contextual research in which you collect, analyse and edit a diverseselection of inputs into the future of your chosen topic area. This might include works of fiction,expert opinion, forecasts, theory, self initiated thought experiments, interviews, etc. Youshould make sure to draw on alternative, under represented and unconventional sources thatwill help expand your vision of the world of 2036. The output of this should be a well designedand evidenced research presentation in a format of your choosing. This should includeelements of research activities, analysis, insights, thinking, as well as an outline of a specificplausible future scenario for 2036 based on your research. This will provide context for yourstage two response and should be completed before moving to stage two.Stage Two – Produce a designed interventionPropose and produce a designed intervention for today as an act of support or opposition tothe future scenario you have outlined in stage one. How you go about this will depend onwhether you oppose or support that future you have imagined BUT you might choose tovisualise what the world might be like, create a workshop in order to imagine alternatives,construct a form of appropriate protest, etc. This is your opportunity to have agency in thefuture you have outlined. Does that future seem good or bad? Do you want to lead us towardsthis future, or away from it?
A well designed research presentation in an appropriate format that outlines your vision for2036. This report should provide context for your stage two response. 
A designed intervention for today as an act of support or opposition to the future you haveoutlined.

Say What
Once you have decided on the message, how do you make the biggest impact, whilst spending the least amount of money? Design a cost-effective campaign to communicate your message to the chosen audience by any means, and devise a way to record its impact and effectiveness.

Media
Final campaign materials, which might include-campaign statement that states what the campaign is about;identifies the target audience for each of the markets;and explains the tone of the campaign for each of these-campaign strategy outlining the elements of the campaignwith a diagram showing how all the elements work together-examples of final designs

Ideas factory
Research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Project statement of intent and rationale behind your approach.Presentation of a final series of ideas as one organised document, pitch, book, film, or website and so on.

Food Myths
Research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Campaign or Project statement like Who? What? Where? When? How? Why?Design and presentation of final outcomes as determined by your specific interpretation of the brief.

Census 2011
Research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Project statement of intent and rationale behind your approach.Design and presentation of your final concepts.

Brand Promotion
Research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Project statement of intent and rationale behind your approach.Final promotional brochure printed or realised as a digital e-brochure.

We love our audience
Documentation of primary research. Evidence for project proposal.Project development in sketchbooks.Design and presentation of final project in an appropriate format.

Import Export
Top 10 international ideas.Research, documentation and analysis.

With You
Individual research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Thorough documentation of your group work and design development.Pitch to client of final ideas.Final design/campaign work as appropriate.

SALE Everything must go
Recording and documentation of research and idea generation through to final outcomes.Exhibition outcome or documentation.Evidence and presentation of individual contribution to the project.

Pitch itTeam presentation.Documentation of your individual role within the team and your owncontribution to the pitch.Research and developmental material in sketchbooks. 

Repurpose
Individual research and developmental material in sketchbooks.Repurposed object.60-second advertising spot to promote new object or communication.