Youth Worldwide
Devise a campaign concept to promote Youth Worldwide’s values, extend its activities and involve young creatives.

Local Global
Design a strategy/campaign to encourage people to share information person to person, in a specific space or locale that can function both on a local level in London and in an international or region specific context e.g. Tokyo, Beijing, New York or provincial towns and cities. Use your local knowledge and personal history to choose your second space.You will be assigned one of the followingsubject areas, but you will need to decide your own specific focus within the category:Literacy [e.g. book swaps, independent/niche publishing groups]Education [e.g. functional literacy, the economy, local history]Personal health [e.g. sexual health, parenting, diet]Recreation [sports, music, festivals and events]

Offline Forever,Online Now
This brief asks you to explore the relationship between on and off-line environments. You may wish to look into any aspect relating to the subject, it can be purely about design or you can examine broader, more abstract areas such as authenticity, secrecy and identity…

Satellite
This is an opportunity to develop your skills as a designer, editor and art director. It will require a high level of organisational skills and content generation. It offers a chance to explore and conduct in-depth study into a focussed area of visual culture.
To produce an edited outcome that is focussed on a specific area of interest—designed, directed and edited by you.

Material Type
This is an opportunity to work with production processes, materials and techniques. The aim of this exploration is to discover the most effective way to enhance text through appropriate material construction and to augment the reader’s awareness of the message. By exploring, making and testing language in a physical form, you will develop approaches and methods that can be applied in a variety multitude of ways.
To produce a physical, resolved typographic piece that enhances the viewer’s understanding of the messages and meanings contained within a text via the use of sophisticated and ambitious material construction.

Mainstage
This is a project in the area of brand communications and visual identity. It offers you the opportunity to conceptualise and develop a brand as well as articulating it in visual form. Increasingly, graphic designers are becoming involved in the early stages of the origination of branding projects, whether product-based or service-based. Design is becoming an activity that operates at its deeper strategic stages rather than being used only as a superficial gloss to give visual form to more profound and complex problems previously dealt with by others.
To create a visual identity that forms part of the brand experience for a contemporary cultural festival.
Create a visual identity as part of the overall branding for a culturally orientated festival. The festival can be initiated by you or you may find an existing, interesting festival that you feel is in need of refreshing. If you choose to initiate a festival, you will have the opportunity to be the architect of a series of related activities by bringing content together as you would desire. This allows for a more entrepreneurial approach to the activity of design.The identity can contain any combination of the standard elements such as typography, illustration. photography, image and texture treatments. You will be required to originate a core graphic approach that can be rationalised in relation to the festival in terms of content, tone of voice, target audience and subject area.

Jet Wash Culture
To design and build a visual system to promote a series of events at the V&A. 
You are asked to design a visual system for a series of digital and print based promotional pieces that announce a short season of events at the V&A. The events aim to explore the image of music and interrogate visual languages and design methodology of music, musicians and bands from four specific decades.The events aim to create a critical discourse by reviewing the aesthetic and social effects that these periods have had on society, attitudes, fashion and creative thought. Each event will combine, presentations, live performance and virtual interactive experiences where people will also be able to have experiences from previously lost, unarchived or forgotten eras. For example, a viewer will be able to see and feel what it was like to be in the crowd when the Sex Pistols played the 100 club in 1976!Consider how you can use type only, or type and image, to create a visually consistent series. You should develop your approach to the print and digital formats in parallel to explore potential synergies between the two media. The print element will consist of four A1 posters (one per event); the digital pieces will be designed for a London Underground Digital Escalator Panel (DEP) sequence (see technical spec on Moodle).If you use images, these must be original, created specifically for this project, art-directed by you and produced to a professional standard.

Cultural Identity Crisis
This is a graphic identity project. You must design the identity for a new kind of cultural destination. It will be a multi-sited brand that aims to broaden the public understanding of both art and design. It will also place significant emphasis on exploring the boundaries between the disciplines and how frequently intersect and borrow language from one another.
Your early involvement in the creation of this cultural, ‘beast’ will allow you to take the initial decision of a name. A range of initial name ideas have been generated, which are available as options. But these are not fixed, they are a platform, something to build from, you may find a better way to name this entity and develop the identity from there.Initially, the first venue will be situated in a UK city, but NOT London. Once this is established and a few shows have determined the operational validity, a range of other venues will open in cities around the UK and the brand may possibly reach out to Europe. It is important to remember the growth aspect of the entity when building the identity—flexibility is required and locations will expand the accessibility of the brand. The buildings will be a mix of renovated spaces; places that have had a previous life and function, so a range of historical and possibly unusual architectural environments will also be part of the viewer’s experience.The choice for the first venue is up to you but should be made from the following options: Birmingham, Manchester, Portsmouth, Sheffield, Nottingham, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Bristol, Newcastle. Once you have selected a city, it is important to visit the place as part of your initial research—explore local design, art, music & media resources to build a picture of the local community.The venues will contain semi-permanent collections drawn form a local and national output of the design & arts sectors. The aim is to provide people with experiences of both traditional design & art works, plus live ‘camps’ of inter-active workshops, contemporary experiences and site specific installations—all within one venue.The identity should instil & project a sense of ‘mother’ community across all the venues—that offers a united mission & sense of purpose. But the identity also needs to also be visually adaptable, allowing each venue to create a ‘micro’ community that feeds off & inspired but its immediate locality.All content of the venues is leant by the artists/designers, there will be no admission charge but donations will go towards the running costs. A percentage of any art sold will be taken as commission, also towards running costs. Certain, staged events or one-offs shows may be ticketed. A main factor of the manifesto for this initiative, is to offer as much and as broader creative experience as possible for as little or no cost to the public—it’s primary purpose is to inform & educate.

Axis: Edit the world
This is an opportunity to develop your skills as a designer, editor and art director. It will require a high level of organisational skills and content generation. It offers a chance to explore and do in-depth study into a focussed area of visual culture.
To produce an editorial that is focussed on a specific area of interest—designed and edited by you.

Typo-Hacker
The aim of this project is for you to create either an intervention, a hack or a reappropriation of an existing typographic system using the language, structures and medium of typography in order to create change within a social context.The role of the typo/hacker is to exploit opportunities within a system in order to subvert form, content and/or context —transforming its conceptual and creative properties, or initiating his/her own. By undertaking this role, you have the power to become a subversive voice for change, either permanently or temporarily.You will have a choice of system(s) to work with (see next column), or you may find your own system(s)—providing that a clear use of typography is observed throughout. You will undergo an experimental and explorative typographic process through a set of workshops. Choices of formats and media are open but should be informed by your systems, ideas and development processes. The final deliverables for this project need to be relevant and applicable for the system and the ‘hacking’ methods. Evidence will be required to show how your intervention has been applied to the system by means of mock-ups, prototypes and installations.

Type Tribute
The purpose of this project is for you to carry out a range of co-ordinated designs that will allow you to explore the identity, history and value of typefaces.You will work in groups of either 2 or 4.Your group will be given a single typeface which you will work with throughout this project, and you will form a tribute band.With the commitment of true fans, you and your band will become experts in all aspects of your typeface. You will find out all there is to know about its history, use and context and you will develop a profound understanding of all of its anatomical details.You will also be given a title to work with.Working with these items, you should attempt align the typeface and the title with an appropriate music genre.You will produce a series of designs based on the insights gained through your investigations into your typeface. Your aim is to reveal the beauty and unique features of its design.What is the most appropriate visual tone? What was the original purpose of the typeface? Does it come loaded with historical or contemporary meanings or is it neutral?

Supra Specimen
This project requires you to observe, document & record, then analyse and extract then ultimately design and produce a specimen of particular type.You will not be designing a specimen for a single typeface but will be creating a specimen that articulates a pattern, a set of connections or links between a collection of typeface observations. You may discover a new classification for a selection of typefaces that relates to location, function, tone, texture, voice, message, form, attitude.You are asked to initial photographically & record a range of type from the environment. This first exercise will be to document and harvest 108 individual images of single letters, numbers and characters.These will placed into the grid template provided and will for the base material of your project. Look at large and small type (macro & micro observation) and don’t overly edit at this stage—the aim is to get quantity. Each of these images should frame a single character/letter/numeral form a ‘found’ typeface. Try to keep a record of the location and the functionality of the type as you go. This will be useful in the subsequent studio analysis of your material. This first task should be completed in colour.

LAE
Design a typographic site-specific message for a location, based on in-depth primary research and consideration for audience.
Locate a ‘message’ space within the environment. This can be somewhere that is currently not used for advertising or promotion material and so on.Select a suitable theme, message, or change.Devise and prototype a site-specific typographic intervention using 3D, print or digital or a combination of these methods.Design a final stand-alone presentation of your idea.

Graphicology
This Typo/graphic project will explore the notions of, ‘narrative’ and ‘place’ and will utilise a diverse range of recording and research methods, followed by a process of active deciphering and analysis of what you have collected. The project requires you to go on a local adventure from which you will survey and observe, gather and record. The details of where you will travel will be defined as a result of the workshop 01 outcome, so attendance is essential.This is not a regular journey and you are no regular commuter. You could be seen as a voyeur, a tracking machine or a fly on the wall. This project needs dedication and you will need to complete all the studio workshops, which have been designed to enable you to work through a creative set of tasks.

Worldly Heavens
Inevitably and increasingly we see computer graphics deployed to visualise and bring worlds to life. Your task is to imaginatively, creatively and pragmatically build a world using appropriate and relevant tools that challenges existing aesthetics, theories and conventions.
Bring a world to life using computer graphics. Your final outcome should use appropriate software, platforms or technologies to materialise the ideas and principles of your world.

Watertight Campaign
It is an opportunity to develop your skills as a creative director and consider a wide range of platforms, formats, media and approaches; physical, digital and experiential. An important part of the brief is to also consider an appropriate format for communicating and presenting your concept, as if for an industry setting. It is about raising awareness of the issues and the charity’s engagement with these, it is not a rebranding exercise.
Devise a long-term campaign concept to increase public engagement with the charity in the UK. It should establish connections, building the charity’s audience, not seek donations. Because the goals are long-term, the charity expects the message to be marketed towards 16–24 year-olds.

System Hacker
Through a series of experiments and playful interventions, this non-applied project will encourage you to challenge conventions, break rules and modify content to transmit new messages and meanings.Following a series of explorations and tests, you will create an intervention that alters the meaning, the shape, the content and/or the message of a chosen system.

Symbiosis
Using the theme of symbiosis, demonstrate how symbols can communicate meaning. Research the visual/cultural language of two things that share a symbiotic relationship. Analyse and record their visual language. Develop a graphic language and apply it across two symbols demonstrating its potential to be consistently applied to a wider or expanded set.This is not a drawing test. It is an exercise in visual analysis and the graphic reductionor simplification of encoded meaning.

Substance Abuse
You will have been assigned a product and its user (another student).You must create a campaign to discourage them from using theirchosen object/substance.You will need to investigate their substance/object and understand whythe individual uses it. From their account of the period of abstinence,you should gain a better understanding of their level of ‘dependence’.What promotional material already exists for the substance/object?How is it packaged and sold? What company manufactures it? What istheir profile? What other products do they manufacture? What is thesubstance/object made from? What impact, if any, does thesubstance/object have on human health, environment, society, politicsetc? What alternatives are there? What methods and processes do youneed to employ in order to re-present the substance in a new way?You will need to consider the best vehicle/method to convey yourmessage to your audience. What does the product tell you about theperson? Who else uses the product? What do you need to find outabout their personality, their lifestyle, their opinions/beliefs, theirstrengths and weaknesses? Do you promote the idea using a positivemessage, or a confrontational and negative one? How can you ensurethe campaign is a success?

Sound and Vision
After identifying sound recordings held in the British Library from the Sounds website, students will produce pieces of graphical work inspired by this process.You can use the sound content (where rights permit) or create something inspired by it.The British Library will publish a selection of works on their Sound & Vision blog at intervals in March 2014. The posts will feature the piece of work produced by the student (or an image of it) along with an account of its design process and production.

Communities of Practice
Identify your community of practice within the area of graphic and media design. Produce a final outcome showcasing the materials, techniques, and or processes identified with that community of practice.

Soapbox
Over the course of this unit, we will take you through the process ofinvestigation, research, planning, visualisation, writing, formatting,designing and testing a campaign about a current issue.Part One of this process is research and investigation - visual, verbaland written - to inform your approach before you can formulate acampaign.

Social Design
Design a campaign, approach, resources, communication to help, enable, encourage another student to undertake a new activity, experience or behaviour that will build on and help them to realise their personal design manifesto and ambitions.

Self initiated project
Propose a Self Initiated Project.

People Make Places
The area where London College of Communication is located is currently in the process of dramatic change and redevelopment. Transportation, residential, leisure, commercial and educational sites are all in flux. But how does this impact on the people who live, work, commute or study here?Observe and map specific areas of the Elephant & Castle and the people you find there over a period of time. Uncover behaviours, habits, histories, routines etc and devise your own ways of documenting and comparing this information. Can you identify specific communities of interest or define potential audiences by shared behaviours?Formulate audience insights based on your observations and the data you have gathered. Consider what messages would be most appropriate for the area you have chosen and the people who use it. Then design site-specific communications to either inform, entertain or affirm your audience.

Lens
Create a motion design response to a topic, theme orphenomena of your choosing. The final outcome shouldtake into consideration appropriate audiences, formatsand platforms.
This brief invites you to explore the process of understanding about a topic, theme orphenomena through motion design and connected activities. To do this you will need tobreak up your project into smaller sections which can be explored through focussed studies.These studies might cover:Technical understanding like Learning to use a piece of software or technical approach.Conceptual understanding like Interpreting research activities through experimentation.Production like exploring the qualities of a particular medium.Communication like experimenting with methods of representation.The nature and focus of these studies will inform the type of outcome you produce.Broadly speaking your project process should incorporate the following stages. You don’tneed to see these stages as linear or finite. It might in fact be more helpful to consider them ascycles within a process of thinking through making.

Mind over Matter
Devise a campaign for young people or students to promotewellbeing, challenge stigma around mental health issues andor signpost existing services, resources and support.
There are a number of ways to approach this brief, for example:How can a campaign help to build awareness of early signs of mental health challengesand encourage people with these signs to seek help?How could University of the Arts, as a case study, improve its communications around mental health?How might students themselves be encouraged to support or look out for othersexperiencing stress and anxiety at college.Look at ways of building supportive communities.You could choose to focus on a specific audience such as school students sittingexams, LGBTQ+ young people, students from specific countries or culturalbackgrounds.

LifeLine
To promote a new mentoring service for young offenders and add value to thescheme through the use of clear and appropriate design.

Jobs on the Out
There are opportunities to,design the branding to make this more professional and better reflect what the servicedoes and how this is applied in printconsider the website design to make more practical,inspirational and relevant to the contentlook at how better use could be made of storytelling on the website for example with videocontentredesign the magazine at this stage they are more interested in seeing a range ofpossible design directions rather than one completely redesigned finished magazine.Also consider more effective ways of presenting the content, new content ideas and so on.

Inside Outside
Create a graphic narrative thatcommunicates internal andexternal space, inside and out.How can we communicatewithout relying upon text?
Experimentation and testing is key to thisproject. Consider how narrative can conveymeaning, from one segment, panel orsection to the next.You might take inspiration from your placeof residence, objects, ‘spaces’ and so on.Finding a variety of methods of graphicimage based media that do not rely upontext based communication is essential.Consider linear and non-linear narrative:How will your audience read and react toyour output? Read one sheet and then theother, or switch between the two? Do youneed to read one sheet before the other, arethey sequential?

In Thirty Years
This project explores how to use design tools and methods for speculating about the future. You will make a short animation film that imagines yourself in a future 30 years from now. Focus in on one feature of your imagined future. It might be society, transport, publishing, typography, the music industry, weather, or what you are wearing or eating three decades from now.Maybe the future you imagine is in some way better than the present. Maybe it responds to a specific social or technical problem you think we will have in the future, or that we have now.

Echoes
This brief invites you to experiment with thecollection, analysis and mapping of data.After a series of workshops exploringtechnology and mapping in a variety offorms, you will develop a map whichdocuments information on an area, space,or location of your choosing.This will involve primary research for examplegathering data within the area, space, orlocation you are focussing on. It is thereforean opportunity to explore and experiencethe space around you. Consider scale like city,street, room, type like external or internal or real orvirtual, and use like Public or Private.The type of information you choose to mapwill be affected by location, but as a guideyou might focus on one of the following:• Human activity or experience.• Forms of identity.• Behaviour of flora or fauna.• Environmental conditions.• Architectural or material histories.• Infrastructure.Your final map should exist in a form thatyou feel is appropriate to communicate itscontents - this means it might be physical ordigital, or both. Irrespective of the final formwhen developing your map you must takeinto consideration:• Who should read your map (Audience).• How should your audience read yourmap (Form/Function).• Technologies of data collection;recording; translation; playback; and so on like Medium or Method or Processes.

Focus x Format
Use digital media or technologyto effectively communicate amessage or call to action andengage a specific audience.
You will be provided with a specificmessage to work with and options foran audience for the communication andtechnology or media to use.Analyse, explore and test a variety of waysof communicating the message. Fromthese experiments, select an appropriatemeans of communication for your finaloutcome.Consider the audience for the message.Research and analyse their situation andvalues. The intention of the communicationcould be to inform, encourage, shock,educate, entertain, motivate, anger, inspire,instruct, surprise, intrigue etc.• Explore and test the technology youwill use to deliver your message.• What qualities do the differenttechnologies or formats have?• How can technology or format enhancethe accessibility, user experience, andcommunication of your message?• How might your outcome form part ofa wider campaign?

Homage
Your task is to create an homage, to eithera; Person (Identity), Building (space) orEvent (moment of time) of your choice.You will analyse your subject, identifyspecific aspects and messages around itand use considered storytelling methods toplan and create a piece of moving image.

Typo Graphic Action
This project asks you to create atypographic focused moving imagesequence for screen using content of yourchoice.Method, material, medium and format are tobe defined by you, and should be chosen toreflect the content you are working with. Youmay wish to consider film, animation, orother analogue methods of developingmoving image. You will work closely withyour tutors to help develop and define yourtypographic solution – exploration throughexperimental and investigative practice iskey.

Change
Using the DesignSchool Manifesto asinspiration, select acause and designcampaign materialsOr interventions to beapplied across differentmedia and methods.
Choose a belief from the first 5 statementsof the Design School Manifesto. Interrogatethe statement and select an issue or causethat fits with the belief.Devise an appropriate campaign messageand content and explore how these mightbe communicated via a variety of differentmedia and methods.What change do you want to effect?Who are you talking to?What methods could you use?What would success look like?Consider audience, materials, media, visuallanguage, copywriting, scale, branding,approach, engagement, representation,ethics, inclusivity, accessibility,sustainability, impact.

Performing Bodies of Information
From image based platforms, to text based allthese can now be accessed and createdthrough our portable devices; there are somany choices now when it comes to sharinginformation beyond the radio and televisionbroadcast.We have now seen instances that makeinternational news where the distribution andconsumption of information can changeoutcomes through public opinion; everyone isable to voice themselves in however mannerthey choose fit. We are all performers eachwith our own stage...what of critical reflectionFor example ethics?How we now perceive truth and realityimpacts our ability to understand and reshareinformation. Starting from one’s bodiescreate an intervention that connects onetechnological medium with performance,addressing this modern condition we existin today.

Time Capsule
You will be allocated a theme for your timecapsule for which you will research and gatherappropriate content.You are tasked to design a time capsule thatwill communicate your theme based on yourresearch.Consideration should be given that your timecapsule will contain messages that would bediscovered and interacted with years from now…
How, where, and for what intention yourcapsule is found will be crucial in helping youin the design. How might your future beingdiscover your artefact if it was buried, howwould your future being interact with it?

2D 3D
Once a physical space has been locatedthrough independent research, and refinedand focused in studio workshops, you arerequired to graphically represent thatspace in two dimensions in printed form.You will produce an output that incorporatescommunication design methods includingbut not limited to; design systems, layout,typography, photography and the graphicimage, mapping, information principles andprocesses, colour and scale.
Research areas includes but are notlimited to; geographic location, population,previous or current function, relationshipto neighbouring spaces, the environment.Test and explore new possibilities foreditorial design. Apply fundamental designprinciples in new and imaginative ways tocommunicate meaning through type,structure, typography, image, information,colour, narrative and paper choices.

Hammer
Choose one subject. Evidence your new analysis of its value and visual language.Consider the ways in which it is communicated, broadcast, narrowcast, or other modus.Focusing upon your subject (social, political, cultural, economic) demonstrate howmessages and meaning can be transmitted in an age of misinformation and signal-chaosthrough specified and agreed media and processes. Propose and produce a graphic andmedia design communication strategy with specific message and meaning.The various means by which graphic and media design can be deployed to disseminatemessages for positive change. Tone of voice is key, as is an understanding of audience.Encourage a renewed trust in clear, articulate, multi-layered information and message.

Data Action
Use data visualisation techniques to construct an engaging narrative in order to communicate a particular message or viewpoint to an audience and advocate for change.
You will be provided with a specific data set to work with. Analyse, explore and test a variety of ways of visualising this information. From these experiments, extract key data or facts or statistics on which to base your final communication.Design a way of presenting this data in order to communicate a specific message and call to action. This could involve the use of animation, infographics, pictograms, illustrations, photography, time lapse, 3D etc. The intention of the communication could be to encourage, shock, inform, motivate, anger, inspire, instruct, surprise, intrigue etc.Select a suitable audience for the message and consider who might be an appropriate (non-commercial) ‘client’ e.g. government department, charity, individual, professional organisation etc.The final outputs need to be designed for Instagram and print.

Type and Place
Design a typographic site-specific messagefor a location, based on in-depth primaryresearch and consideration for audience.
Locate a message space within theenvironment. This can be somewhere that iscurrently not used for advertising or promotionmaterial etc.Select a suitable theme or message or change.

New Order
For this project you will organise, analyse and visualise a selected body of visual information to communicate in innovative, meaningful and insightful ways.You may select a specific subject from the list provided at the session or you may decide to choose or originate your own set of specific things that will be effective when visually calibrated, compared and contrasted.Before committing to a final choice, test and explore what works best and what is most engaging. Do not be overambitious, too conceptually vague or too broadly spread here. For this project, what you do with your subject — how you use design processes to reveal patterns meaningfully — matters more than the subject itself.The project will involve three stages data collection, analytical exploration,visualisation and output.Experimentation with analysis is key. Do not feel contented with your initial results — exhaust all possibilities, push the project above and beyond your expectations.

Sign of the Times
You will be provided with a seed word. Youwill use this word to explore the relationshipbetween two dimensional graphic designand three dimensional forms, digital andphysical, to explore how objects canfunction as carriers of meaning.A second but equally important element tothe project will be to explore how newmedia and technologies can be used tocommunicate an objects meaning throughonline digital media.

Meta Type
This project requires you to observe, document and record, then analyse and extract then ultimately design and produce a specimen of particular type.You will not be designing a specimen for a single typeface but will be creating a specimen that articulates a pattern, a set of connections or links between a collection of typeface observations. You may discover a new classification for a selection of typefaces that relates to location, function, tone, texture, voice, message, form, attitude.

Physical Language
A physical, tangible language, formed through and by objects and interaction.
Express the words you were given in class using physical means and methods.Using what is around you - objects, processes - discover new ways of making and envisioning meaning. The object or process will inform the meaning of your word or the other way round, experimentation is important.

Lexicon
You will be assigned an Artist and Designer and asked to gather research – to generate content in text and image. We also require you to choose your own favourite artist or designer. For this you will mainly use secondary research but may also want to explore using primary research.
You are not allowed to use the internet to gather research. No Google. No Wikipedia.You must document and reference your sources, using the Harvard referencing system. Give due credit.

Static Action
Produce one print basedsymbol and one moving imagesequence to compare andanalyse the relative merits ofstatic graphic image symbolismand moving image basedcommunication media.
You will be provided with a seed word.With this word you will explore the equalbut different potential of communicatingmeaning through the static symbolic imageand moving image sequences.Explore the meaning of your word andexplore the various ways in which thatmeaning can be communicated implicitly,explicitly, literally or figuratively.Then, practically explore the ways in whichgraphic image based communicationcan function differently, from iconiccommunication such as signs and glyphs,to filmic visceral kinetic sequences.Consider your target audience. Who willview your static dynamic symbol andmoving images sequences and whatmeaning will they take from them?

Interference
Design a site-specific digital intervention that encouragesan audience to interact withor consider a space in a different way.
Identify a suitable location and conduct primary research.Select a suitable theme or message or change.Devise and prototype a site-specific intervention using the digital methods and approaches from the workshop sessions.Design a final stand-alone presentation of your idea.

Codex
Using one of the six texts listed below, create a digital PDF presentation for a book design.

Lingo
Create an immersive experience using emergingtechnology that re-imagines the way that wecommunicate with one another.

Encode and decipher
Express deeper knowledge of an object through real working outcomes, involving augmented reality, creative coding, websites, or physical computing. 
Select an object, and use one of the technologies listed below to express sentiment, emotion, or deeper knowledge of the object.Diabetes UK 
Focus on Type 2 diabetes and create a prevention campaign.

Colour, Space and Story
Colour as a language is integralto the communication ofinformation, stories, emotionsand human behaviour.As communication designersand artists, how can colour beused to communicate meaning.
Using a combined theoretical and practice basedinvestigation, selecting ONE,communicate; Information, Mood or Spacethrough colour in both digital and analoguespaces as a visual and narrative language.Your TWO outcomes should demonstratethe technical, experimental and narrativepossibilities of colour.

Two points
This project involves mapping, datarecording, image capture and informationdesign methods. You will generate a graphicoutcome, or a series of outcomes, inresponse to two physical locations.You will be expected to develop yourexperimental work-in-progress throughan intensive process of iterative designtesting which should be documented fullyin physical prototypes. The production of a single version of the output will not suffice.
Select two physical locations and work to document,explore and communicate their attributes, similarities anddifferences in a series of engaging ways.

Manifest
Whatever you may call it; a passion project, an unexploredidea or just a hobby. This is an opportunity to control theagenda in your own business venture.
Your objective is to develop and present a business venture to the point where it is ready to receive funding OR to be officially launched and become public facing.

2035
Through the prism of a single technological,environmental, social or political phenomenon investigateand speculate on what our lives might be like in the year2035. Produce a design response which draws youraudience into that world.
We are all experts in the interpretation of designed objects, environments, experiences andmedia because it is something we do a thousand times each day. As a result the language ofdesign allows us to connect with visions of the future in a recognisable and tangible way,and helps to communicate “realness.”This brief is about using investigation, and informed speculation to describe your vision of aparticular aspect of our daily lives in 2035 through the design of graphic media. To achievethis you will pick a single technological, environmental, social or political phenomenon toinvestigate. You should research how it has developed up to this point and how far expertopinion and leading-edge research says it will change by the year 2035. You will speculateupon how the phenomenon you are investigating will affect our lives in the year 2035 andproduce a creative output that describes the world you have imagined. Through interactionwith your output, your audience should emotionally and intellectually understand what theirlife might look like in 2035. What might it feel like to live in your future? What might we see?Hear? And breathe? You should consider your position within this - are you critical?Provocative? Optimistic? Pragmatic? Romantic?

2036
Construct a research presentation that outlines aplausible future vision for 2036. Based on thispresentation, produce a designed intervention – for today– to either direct us towards, or away from the future youhave outlined.
This is not an exercise in prediction making, it is about understanding how futures areimagined and enacted, and how we can create agency in that dynamic – today. You shouldchoose one of the broad areas of research outlined below to look into, then work through thetwo project stages as specified below.

Say What
This brief requires you to say something. Communicate a message of your choice to an audience of your choosing. It could be commercial, political, personal, something that you are passionate about, something that makes you laugh, or cry. The audience could be defined by a variety of means (not just age, gender and so on) or your message could be aimed at just one key individual.

Media
Using your analysis of the topic or subject that you followed through threedifferent media outlets, design a campaign about the topic tailored toeach of the media outlets.Produce a campaign that eitheranswers the problem and communicates this answer oranalyse the problem and present the informationin a new wayand present that campaign in different ways based on yourunderstanding of the readership or viewership of the three outlets.

Ideas factory
This project is particularly suitable for students looking to concentrate on idea generation for their portfolio.Produce a body of ideas for adding value to any existing brand, company or organisation. Research the corporate social responsibility agenda for your chosen company. Evaluate how this currently translates into their activities or brand values and devise a number of ways to help it ‘add value’ in a meaningful way to its product or service. The emphasis for this brief is on the quantity and quality of your ideas, thinking and strategic approaches.

Food Myths
As final year students on the Design for Advertising pathway, you will have realised the importance of understanding your audience and developing strategies that are interactive and empower them – not just communicating through obvious channels, reusing the same tired strategies. By demonstrating an ability to subvert standard practice, question traditional approaches but also design responsibly you will better placed to frame the future of the industry that you are about to enter.Cranfield University conduct research into all types of nutritional and food issues. Their concern as scientists is how to communicate clear messages about nutrition to the public and counteract misinformation and myths that exist around healthy eating.
Design an innovative, engaging and useful way to communicate information about the issue to the public with the ultimate aim of helping people make healthy eating choices.

Census 2011
This project is particularly suitable for students looking to tackle another live brief and engage with public service campaigning and information dissemination.Choose one or more aspects of Census 2011 promotion from the brief supplied and produce a campaign and/or relevant materials utilising any of the suggested media.

Brand Promotion
This project is particularly suitable for students looking to concentrate on brand promotion for their portfolio.Produce a multi-page publication to promote an existing brand, company or organisation. Research the corporate social responsibility agenda for your chosen company. Evaluate how this currently translates into their activities or brand values and devise the most effective means to communicate this information to an audience as a multi-page document. This could be a print-based or digital publication.

We love our audience
Research the community you have chosen. Gather primary researchabout the people, their needs and the issues that most concern them.Back your primary research up with secondary research which youcan take back to your community and find evidence to support yourcommunity’s point of view.Decide on a message that the community would like to communicateand identify who is the audience for that message for example a housingestate might want to talk to the local council about rubbish collection,or older people might want to communicate with younger people.Design an appropriate communication solution.

Import Export
The aim of this summer’s research is to start thinking about design andcommunication in global terms and inform yourselves about local issuesand ideas that could be translated internationally.Collect examples of ideas, services, innovations that could be imported orexported between countries. Compile a Top 10 of ideas and analysis.For example, a recent article in The Independent newspaper reported thatthere is a new scheme for the city of Ghent in Belgium to go vegetarianone day a week. Would this work in London? How could it be promoted?Conversely, are there any innovative concepts from the UK that could besuccessfully implemented in another country? If so, what cultural issueswould need to be taken into consideration?

With You
You will be working in project teams on this brief. This is an opportunity to think about what skills you already have, what you can contribute to a team and your collaborative working methods. 
You will be briefed by your client With You and will need to make your own notes at the briefing session. The client will not be providing a written brief, so be prepared to ask questions in order to clarify the project requirements.

SALE Everything must go
Create a piece of communication that explores the meaning of value.Using your holiday project research into branding, packaging andconsumerism plus the one pound one-day project experience, think about howwe as a society perceive value and worth.
As a communication platform for the work you produce, the EckersleyGallery has been booked in March. Thisis an opportunity for you to curate, organise, produce, mount andadvertise an exhibition for this platform under the title or themeSALE Everything must go.
As a group you must decide the overall look and feel, curate andorganise the exhibition, plus produce your own contribution and drivethe content being displayed. As a group you will also be expected toadvertise and promote your exhibition. How many advertising andpromotional strategies can successfully be achieved? Whatdemographic do you want to inform, educate and persuade? Whowould you like to attend? Who would you personally invite?Pitch itYou are part of a pitch team of four people. Select your team memberscarefully, it is not necessarily your best friends who will have the rightskills for the job. It is down to you how you will win this pitch, but thewhole agency is counting on you.The brief is to promote a forthcoming international film festival, to beheld at various locations across London over a one month period. Youhave been assigned a particular country that the festival will celebrate,eg. Spain, Korea, Iran, England and so on. Imagine a whole month of filmsfrom directors such as Pedro Almodóvar or Luis Buñuel; ShaneMeadows or Peter Greenaway.For the pitch, create a country or theme specific poster plus otherappropriate formats that encapsulate your team’s approach to thebranding and promotion of the festival. Unfortunately for you, thefestival curators have not yet finalised the films that will be shown orwhich directors or actors will attend. Therefore you will need to familiariseyourself with the subject and select appropriate indicative content.Your presentation should also serve as a credentials presentation;introducing your team, their roles, experience and accomplishments.

Repurpose
Take existing advertising print media like posters, brochures, billboards, and so on.First, repurpose the material as a new object and or communication.Then, create a 60-second spot to advertise it.